Headings and
Document Structure

Example 1: Reading long, dense text
documents can be a daunting task for
learners

Example 2: Well-structured documents help readers
organize and process texts

As part of our commitment to excellence through diversity and inclusion, California State
University, Northridge (CSUN) strives to ensure that campus communication and information
technology is accessible to everyone. The California State University system statement on
accessibility is articulated in California State University - Executive Order 1111, in accordance
with both federal and state laws including the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 (ADA) and
Section 508 of the U.S. Rehabilitation Act.

Need assistance or have a question not answered here? Please contact the Universal Design
Center (UDC) at UDC@csun.edu or, during business hours (Monday through Friday, 8am to 5pm
Pacific time), at (818) 677-5898.

In this context, “accessibility” means that people with disabilities have access — to facilities, to
information and to technology.

“Universal design” takes this concept one step further, to ensure that everyone can perceive,
understand, engage, navigate and interact regardless of ability or preference.

The UDC supports the campus community in their efforts to make it possible for individuals to
learn, communicate, and share via information and communication technology. One way we do
this is by assisting the campus community to ensure their information and communication
technology is interoperable, usable and accessible, so that individual learning and processing
styles and/or physical characteristics are not barriers to access.

The role of the UDC is to help CSUN implement business practices which enable the campus to
meet policy standards under the Accessible Technology Initiative Coded Memoranda.
What does this mean to me?

Everyone has a part in creating accessible and usable information. The responsibility of creating
and maintaining accessible content falls to the entire campus community.

Universal Design Center

Heading 1

Accessibility Statement

As part of our commitment to excellen®a through diversity and inclusion, California State
University, Northridge (CSUN) strives to en3uge that campus communication and information
technology is accessible to everyone. The Cali ja State University system statement on
accessibility is articulated in California State Unive - Executive Order 1111, in accordance
with both federal and state laws including the America ith Disabilities Act of 1990 (ADA) and
Section 508 of the U.S. Rehabilitation Act.

Need help? Heading

Nee@ assistance or have a question not answered here? Please ci
Design Center (UDC) at UDC@csun.edu or, during business hours (
Friday, 8am to 5pm Pacific time), at (818) 677-5898,|

Normal
paragraph

act the Universal

hat is Accessibility? What is Universal Design?

In this context, “accessibility” means that people with disabilities have access
information and to technology. “Universal design” takes this concept one st
ensure that everyone can perceive, understand, engage, navigate and int
ability or preference.

0 facilities, to
further, to
ct regardless of

Universal Design Center Mission

The UDC supports the campus community in their efforts to make it possible for individuals to
learn cammunicate and chare via information and communication technolosy One wav we da.

