   
 
Progress Note  (Electronic)  Guidance  (CMS -10564)  
 
Purpose:   
 
The purpose of th is Progress Note is to assist the Physician, and/or Medicare allowed Non -Physician 
Practitione r (NPP)* , in document ing patient eligibility for the Medicare home health benefit . This document can 
be placed in the “progress notes” section of the patient’s medical record.  The use of th is Progress Note is 
entirely  voluntary/optional and is intended  ONLY to ass ist the phys ician or allowable Medicare NPP  in 
documenting patient eligibility (i.e. the encounter  and homebound status of the patient.)   
 
The completion of this Progress Note alone  will not substantiate eligibility for the Medicare Home Health 
benefit.  
 
Medicare Home Health Services Patient Eligibility Certification Requirements:  
 
The face -to-face encounter is one of several requirements for the initial certification of eligibility for Medicare 
home health services .  For the initial certification of eligi bility for Medicare home health services , a physician 
must certify (attest) that the patient meets all of the following criteria:  
 
1. The patient is, or was, confined to the home at the time home health services were furnished;  
2. The patient needs, or needed, skilled services;  
3. The patient is under the care of a physician;  
4. The patient is receiving or  received home health services while under a plan of care established and 
reviewed by a physician; and  
5. The patient has had a face-to-face encounter that:  
 occurred no more than 90 days prior to the home health start of care date or within 30 days of 
the start of the home health care;  
 was related to the primary reason the patien t requires home health services;  and 
was performed by a phy sician or allowed non -physician practitioner.  
            The certifying physician must also document the date of the encounter.  
Who Can Complete  this Progress Note :   
 
The following practitione rs are eligible to satisfy the face -to-face encounter re quirement described in # 5 above 
and may complete th is Progress Note : 
1. The physician who certifies the patient’s eligibility for home health benefit/services;  
2. A physician, with privileges, who cared for the patient in an acute or post -acute care facility fr om which 
the patient was directly admitted to home health;  or 
3. A Medicare allowed NPP *, defined as a  nurse practitioner, clinical nurse specialist, certified nurse 
midwife or a physician assistant (as those terms are defined in s ection 1861(aa)(5) of the So cial Security 
Act).  
 
The Home Health agency cannot complete this form and send to the physician for his signature.  
 
The Patient’s Medical Record is the Basis for Certification :  
 
The certifying physician shall use the patient’s medical record as a basis for certification of home health 
eligibility. Therefore, in cases where an eligible entity other than the certify ing physician completes the face -to-
face encounter , the certifying p hysician may review, sign -off (evide ncing his/her review ) and incorporate the 
completed Progress  Note  into the patient’s medical record held by the certifying physician .  
 