Canvas Ally Course - Scanned Comparison

Original Quality — No tags available Ally Quality — Improved and tags

Home Tools piaget1930v2 (origi... * Home Tools piaget1930v2 (Ally)... X
WL. =
4/2 75% + - m - Wl oo a,
x & Q ®@ © rk 00 @ a PT ACAD vy 8ABQ ®@ + MOO «- FR PIALAD
Q oe x
THE LEVEL OF WATER 165 ‘THE LEVEL OF WATER 165
Q of the displacement of the water-level. During a first Al =~ @ of the displacement of the water-level. During a first
stage (under 7-8), the water is supposed to rise because stage (under 7-8), the water is supposed to rise because
6 the pebble is heavy. From the point of view of prediton, > @ <Nonstruct “ the pele is heavy, From the point of ve of prediction
the child is consistent: a large pebble will make the child is consistent : a large pebble will mak
water rise less high than a collection of very heavy grains g >a water rise less high than a collection of very heavy grains
CHAPTER VIL of lead, During a second stage (7 to 9 years), the pre- CHARTER VI of lead. During a second stage (7 to 9 years), the pre-
B diction is correct: the child knows that the submerged B v @ <div> diction is comect : the child knows that the submerged
THE LEVEL OF WATER bade wil ake the ite se fo proportion to thee qe THE LEVEL OF WATER posties ll ake te water wise in proportion "© ee
‘ bulk. But in spite of this correct prediction the chil >a k But in spit is correct prediction the cl
ae Noun is better suited to throw light on the dynamic continues, oblivious to the constant self-contradictions Nothing is better suited to throw light on the dynamic continues, oblivious to the constant self-contradictions
significance attributed to weight by very young children, which he becomes involved in, to explain the pheno- z v @ ste significance attributed to weight by very young children, which he becomes involved in, to explain the pheno-
and on the difficulty which they have in taking volume menon by weight and not by volune: the submerged out on the difficulty which they have Ya" talteg. volume nenon by weight and not by volume’: the submerged
Ae | into account, than the immersion of a pebble in a glass body, he says, makes the water rise in proportion to v @ <Span> ito account, than the immersion of 2 pebble in 2 glass body, be says, makes the water rise in proportion to
cree aaee rainy ag th ge om ® an a Pcie Faas Tee ae Sea
he problem we are going to set the children is ex- onwards), the correct explanation is found The problem we are going to set the children is ex- enwards), the comect explanation is found.
tremely simple, and that is its great advantage over the ° tremely’ simple. and that is its great advantage over the
Fee aa et vatec tod reaues Wome Tele ic Saha celia cegrte itaaa > 4 problem of the floating boats. The child is shown a glass Si First stage ithe water rises because of the
Hike arts lot aoe: tid patel Woe WEIGHT OF THE SUBMERGED RODY.—Let us start with an Oc three-quarters fill of water and a pebble We say: "T WEIGHT OF THE SUBMERGED BODY —_Let US Start with an
‘ tum golng to pat this pebble into the wate, right in observation taken from ordinary life, A little gitl of 9, > hm going to put this pebble info the water, right in observation taken from ordinary life. A litle girl of 9.
‘What will bippen ?| What will the water do? © If the in her own home, who has never been questioned. on’ the 5qe What wil tapren ? What wil the water do? "If the {i her own home, who has never been questioned on the
child doesnt immediately way: The ued Mo ut present subject i om the point of puting a larg bunch docs noe fely say «The water will go up" present subject, is on the point of a large bunch
wo ack ill the water stay at the same place or not of lowers into a vase fullof water. She is stopped : «Take ow . Tflawens pia'a ace fll cr nutes Soe wa Take
ints s sacsperlicds ? <P> ‘we add : “ Will the water stay at the same place or not ? of topped
ae Gee amar a ae eatin aeealtonibe care! It will ran over!" The child answers: No, > 4 Once the child has siven his answer. the experiment is care! It will mm over!” The child answers - “ No,
done, the child is asked to note that the level of the because it isn't heavy.” Thus to her mind it is not the > G <Nonstuce "the child is acked to note that the level of the Because it isn't heavy.” Thus to her mind it is not the
water has risen, and is asked to explain this phenomenon, volume of the body that matters but simply its weight water has risen, and is asked to explain this phenomenon. volume of the body that matters but simply its weight
The younge oe tlvays answer thatthe water has the bunch of fowers, not being hea, ioe neater qe The youngest children always answer that the water has the bunch of flowers, not being heavy, can enter the water
risen because the pebble is heavy and weighs on it. The without exercising pressure and consequently withow °
child is then given a much bulkier, but lighter object, raising its level. > risen because the pebble is heavy and weighs on it. The without oe ising pressure and consequently without
and is asked whether it, too, will make the water rise, : : on will be found >a child is then given a much bulkier, but fighter object, srising its level.
and why, ‘The experiment can be varied with nails, with aot ith abe mee pecarelsovolts vb chara cterin and is asked whether it, too, will make the water rise, This little piece of everyday observation will be found
Shot, with wood, ete a ' Gur Ast stage, Children of this atage think that sub- >a and why. The experiment can be varied with nails, with to tally with the more general results which characterise
Tt goes without saying that this interrogatory must be merged bodies make the water rise in virtue of their ae shot, with wood, etc our first stage. Children of this stage think that sub-
made before the children have been questioned on the weight : a small, heavy body will bring about a greater > It goes without saying that this interrogatory must be merged bodies make the water rise in virte of their
subject of the boats, so as to avoid perseveration. The rise in the level than a large body of lesser weight <div> made before the children have been questioned on the Weight = a small, heavy body will bring about a greater
children whose answers we are going to quote were ‘What is the meaning of this statement ? At first sight, v GOW subject of the boats, so as to avoid perseveration. The rise in the level than a large body of lesser weight.
questioned first about the present subject and only after- it looks as though the child simply confused volume with qo children whose answers we are going to quote were ‘What is the meaning of this statement ? At first sight,
wards about the boats. weight, and designated volume by the word “heavy ”. > questioned first about the present subject and only after it looks as though the child simply confused volume with
‘Three stages may be distinguished in the explanations It might also appear as though, in the child’s eyes, heavy >qP wards about the boats. ; weight, and designated volume by the word " heavy
ry Three stages may be distinguished in the explanations It might also appear as though, in the child’s eyes, heavy
>a
@ <NorStruct> iv

niversal

esign

enter

csun.edu/udc

