=== Page 1 ===
1.Sample Admission Note
2.Sample CTU Progress Note
3.Discharge Summary
4.Discharge Planning and the DC Note BrochureSample Progress Notes and Discharge Summary
Prepared by:
Dr. Mark Goldszmidt MD, MHPE, PhD, FRCPC 
mgoldszm@uwo.ca
Table of Contents:

=== Page 2 ===
ADMISSION NOTE (Verified)  
cc: Family Doctor  
Specialist 1  
Specialist 2 etc . 
DATE OF ADMISSION:  Date 
PATIENT IDENTIFICATION:   Ms. J is a pleasant 76 -year-old 
woman who presented to the Emergency Department from 
home in London.  
REASON FOR REFERRAL:   Concern regarding 
pneumosepsis.  
ACTIVE MEDICAL ISSUES:  
1. Sepsis secondary to pneumonia.
2. Atrial fibrillation with rapid vent ricular rate.
3. Hyponatremia, hypovolemic
4. Migratory polyarthralgia.
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:  
1. Squamous cell carcinoma of the lung, stage III, diagnosed
in November of 2019.  No surgery was performed given
PFTs (FEV1 of 69%, DLCO of 44). They  underwent 60 Gy
of radiation and 30 fractions to the left lung, as well as
treatment with cisplatin and etoposide.  Chemotherapy
finished February 2020.Commented 
[MG1]: Be sure to 
send copies to the 
family physician as 
well as any specialists 
involved in their care 

=== Page 3 ===
2. Left leg DVT sustained in February 2020, completed a
total course of Edoxaban 60 mg, ultrasound of the leg
veins performed on July 23 showed a 2 mm residual clot.
3. Gastroesophageal reflux disease.
4.Remote history of spastic bladder.
5. Remote history of breast cyst.
RECONCILED ADMISSION MEDICATION  LIST : 
1. Diltiazem 120 mg p.o. daily, new as of 1 week PTA.  (Held
on admission)
2. Metoprolol 50 mg po bid (newly started on admission)
3. Apixaban 5 mg oral b.i.d., new as of 1 week PT A
4. Amoxi -Clav 500/125 mg t.i.d., prescribed a 7 -day course 1
week PTA (completed)
5. Ceftriaxone 1 g IV q 24 X 7 days to stop on Date
6. Azithromycin 500 mg now followed by 250 mg daily for 5
days to stop on Date
7. CBD oil at bedtime.
8. Tylenol 650 mg q4 hrs PRN started for pain or fever
ALLERGIES:   Sustained some sort of severe reaction while 
on paclitaxel chemotherapy.  This was switched to cisplatin 
and etoposide.  
SOCIAL HISTORY:   Ms. J is a pleasant 76 -year-old lady who 
lives in a home in London with her husband.  She gets Commented 
[MG2]: Key thing to 
notice is how to 
indicate what is being 
held, what is being 
started and what is 
being changed. Also 
put dates on short 
term meds like 
antibiotics. 

=== Page 4 ===
assistance from him for some of her IADLs including 
groceries and medications.  She is independent for her ADLs 
and am bulates independently with no gait aids.  She is a 
former smoker with a total of approximately 15 -pack -year 
history who quit 45 years ago.  She does not currently drink 
alcohol.  She does use CBD oil every evening for sleep, but 
does not use any other recr eational drugs.  
HISTORY OF PRESENTING ILLNESS:   At baseline, despite 
her underlying malignancy and PFT findings, she has not 
respiratory symptoms.  She presents to the hospital today 
with a history of 2 weeks of shortness of breath, fever, chills, 
night sweats and feeling generally unwell.  She presented to 
the St. Joseph's Urgent Care on Date.   A CTPA was 
performed which did not show a PE, but did show a left lower 
lobe consolidation consistent with pneumonia and she was 
prescribed a 7 -day course of am oxicillin/clavulanate.  Ms. J 
feels that she has not had significant improvement since then.  
She determined to come in today due to generalized 
weakness and desire for improvement.  She notes that she 
has a thermometer at home and did not appear to relate  any 
measured temperatures, but was noted to be febrile at triage.  
As mentioned, she notes a history of increased shortness of 
breath on exertion, primarily over the past 2 weeks.  We note 
that at baseline, since her treatment for lung cancer, she has Commented 
[MG3]: This is 
essential and often 
left out. Especially for 
patients with chronic 
active disease, it 
helps you to 
understand what 
they are normally like 
and how this has 
changed recently/
over time. 

=== Page 5 ===
had some shortness of breath while talking.  Her shortness of 
breath on exertion is however new.  She has also had some 
mild weakness over the past 2 weeks, does endorse 
decreased oral intake secondary to decreased appetite over 
the past 2 weeks.  She does ha ve some very mild chest pain, 
which she says has been present for quite a while, several 
months, but did improve, and then came back over the past 2 
to 3 weeks after sustained coughing fits.  She does note that 
she has quite a sustained cough starting from  February that 
has not changed recently.  We do note that this is significant 
enough to cause her posttussive emesis on a somewhat 
regular basis, though she was not able to quantify how often.  
Ms. J also endorses a history of 6 weeks of migratory 
polya rthralgia .  It initially started in her left hand, where she 
had an area of erythema that was tender to touch.  She did 
have decreased mobility in that wrist, but was able to sustain 
some movement.  It then spread up into 2 or 3 of her fingers, 
no particul ar distribution and limited mobility in them entirely.  
This pain persisted for 3 to 5 days and then resolved 
spontaneously.  She had a week of no pain, and then the pain 
appeared similarly in her right hand.  This pattern continued 
and currently she has t his pain in her left ankle.  She is not 
able to significantly move her ankle.  At this point, it is quite 
tender and she is having difficulty ambulating given the pain.  Commented [MG4]: 
Ideally, each active 
problem listed above 
should have its own 
paragraph.  Notice 
how this resident did 
not write anything 
about the 
hyponatremia or 
atrial fibrillation.  
Ideally, both should 
have been discussed 
at least briefly.   

=== Page 6 ===
REVIEW OF SYSTEMS:   She was positive for 3 -day history 
of mild diarrhea.  She did not have any headaches or vision 
changes.  She has no abdominal pain and no recent urinary 
changes.  She does not report any palpitations.  She has not 
had any residual stiffness or other pain in her joints after the 
inflammatory polyarthralgia  fade.  
PHYSICAL  EXAMINATION:    
appeared in mild respiratory distress with tachypnea and 
some supraclavicular indrawings.  
Vitals:  At triage, febrile to 39.7 .  Heart rate of 156 and 
respiration rate of 30 .  Blood pressure 123/73 and satting 
96% on 2 litres. On assessment  now, temperature is 37.3.  
Heart rate had decreased down to be 95 to 106.  Respiratory 
rate 22.  Blood pressure 106/76, SpO2 97% on 2 litres.  Ms. J 
did desaturate periodically into the high 70s while talking, but 
when encouraged to breathe thro ugh her nose with some 
pauses in her speech, these did recover.  
Respiratory:  Diffuse crackles were present throughout the 
right lobe of the lung , with no particular upper versus lower 
predominance.  There were decreased breath sounds to 
the left base , con sistent with low lung volumes.  There were 
no crackles in the left lung.  
Cardiovascular:  Normal S1, S2 with no additional sounds.  
No peripheral edema.  JVP was flat.  Commented 
[MG5]: This is a 
very nice touch 
indicating what they 
were at their worst 
or over time in the 
ED.  It gives a better 
sense of things than 
just listing what you 
found when you saw 
the patient. 

=== Page 7 ===
Abdomen:  Soft, nontender, nondistended.  
Extremities:  Left ankle examination showed som e mild 
erythema on the lateral surface of the left ankle .  It was 
warm to touch and there was significant pain to direct 
palpation.  Ms. J was  not significantly able to mobilize her 
joint due to pain.  Examination of the bilateral hands did not 
show any ac ute tenderness or limitation in range of motion, 
though it may show some baseline mild osteoarthritis.  
INVESTIGATIONS:   
1. VBG showed a pH of 7.43, CO2 of 40, bicarb of 27.2.
2. Electrolytes showed hyponatremia at 129, potassium of
4.6, chloride of 93,  bicarbonate 24.  Creatinine was 58.
3. Normal white count at 8.1.  Hemoglobin at 112, from 127
on May 5.  Platelets 422.
4. Chest x -ray shows chronic left -sided volume loss.  There
are no acute areas of consolidation seen.
5. X-ray of the left ankle sh ows no fracture.
6. A CTPA on August 31 shows no PE, but does show left
lower lobe consolidation consistent with pneumonia .
ASSESSMENT AND PLAN:   In summary, Ms. J is a pleasant 
76-year-old lady presenting from home with fever,
tachycardia, tachypnea, in the setting of previously identified
left lower lobe pneumonia.

=== Page 8 ===
1. Regarding  Pneumosepsis:  As mentioned, she has a 
previously diagnosed pneumon ia.  We do note that there 
are no acute changes on the chest x -ray, but it did not 
appear to be visualized to the previous one.  There was 
no other significant infectious source expressed by the 
patient.  We do note her hyponatremia and her diarrhea 
for th e last couple of days and therefore we would add 
legionella to the differential of organisms, possibly causing 
this.  We think GI source or urine source of infection are 
unlikely.  
A.We will start ceftriaxone and azithromycin to cover for
atypical infections.
B.We will send urine legionella antigen to rule this out.
C.We will order urinalysis to ensure no urine source,
although we feel that this suspicion is very low given
her lack of urinary symptoms.
D.Given that she is hypovolemic, we have added a 75
mL infusion of Ringer's lactate over 10 hours, in
addition to the 1 litre bolus given by the Emergency
Department.
2. Regarding AFib and rapid ventricular response:  We feel
that the cause of this is most likely secondary to
hypovolemia and/or infection.  Ms.  J rate was able to beCommented 
[MG6]: Note how for 
each of the problems, 
the resident, as 
relevant addresses 
the most likely 
diagnosis, differential 
diagnosis, underlying 
cause, plans for 
further investigation, 
management and 
monitoring 

=== Page 9 ===
controlled with just oral metoprolol 50 mg and therefore an 
IV push metoprolol was not given.  
A.Given that her rate was not controlled on diltiazem,
we have elected to discontinue this and switch her to
Metoprolol 50 mg b.i.d.
B.Given that she is over 65 and is female with a
CHADSvasc score of 2 , we have elected to continue
the apixaban started in the Urgent Care.
C.Given her presentation with RVR, we will elect to
initiate 48 hours of telemetry.
D.To ensure no additional causes, we h ave ordered a
TSH and an echo, for the team to reassess as
needed in the morning.
3. Regarding hyponatremia:  We feel that this is most likely
secondary to hypovolemia, as Ms. J has a documented
decreased oral intake.  As mentioned above, we are going
to giv e some maintenance fluids in addition to the bolus
that Emerge has already provided.  We will reassess her
electrolytes tomorrow morning to determine if additional
measures are necessary.
4. Regarding migratory polyarthralgia :  This pattern is
nonspecific, t ime-limited, and intermittent; she currently
only has one painful joint.  The multiple joints and
subacute time course are not consistent with septic

=== Page 10 ===
arthritis. She does have evidence of possible 
osteoarthritis on examination, and it is possible that this 
could be related to minor joint trauma causing a more 
acute flare of pain.  A rheumatologic condition remains on 
the differential.  
A.We will order standing Tylenol to provide pain control
and help Ms. J with mobilization.
B.We have opted not to send off any rheumatologic
workup overnight, and will leave further workup to the
morning team.
5. Best Practices :  
A.As Ms. J is already on apix aban, we will not add
additional DVT prophylaxis.
B.Per her wishes, Ms. J is a  DNR restricted.
C.Given that she is on CBD oil at bedtime, but did not
bring this, we have opted to add nabilone 1 mg qhs.
We could arrange to administer her home CBD o il if it
is poss ible for her husband to drop it off.
6. Disposition:  Ms. J will be able to return home to her
husband after she has defervesced.
Name, 
MD Resident dictating for
Name AttendingCommented [MG7]: 
be sure to indicate any 
forms of lines, 
telemetry, catheters 
etc.  For each 
be sure to 
indicate why it is in, 
how long it is planned 
to be in and the 
indication. 
E.g.  Telemetry for 48
hours to monitor for
cause of syncope.  If
normal after 48 will
discontinue.
Foley placed for urinary
retention.  will  treat for
constipation and plan a
trial of void on 
DATE.
Commented [MG8]: 
While it is good to list 
this, it really should 
have a few  sentences 
explaining why the 
patient is making the 
choice etc. 
Back to top

=== Page 11 ===
CTU  PROGRESS NOTE  
PATIENT  IDENTIFICATION :  Ms. M is a 90-year-old female 
from home with her son and granddaughter presenting with a 
fever NYD as well as shortness of breath.  
DATE OF ADMISSION: Month, day,  20XX 
ACTIVE  ISSUES:  
1. Hypoxemia, likely due to R lower lobe pneumonia
2. Hypotension
3. Mobility
4.Eye infection
5. Confusion
PAST  MEDICAL HISTORY : 
1. MCA stroke June 22, 2020  with left sided weakness and
neglect.
a.Etiology is ESUS versus small vessel disease
b.Was in Parkwood for rehab
2.MCV in 1973 with patient suffered from posttraumatic
seizures.  No history of seizure in the last 10 years.
3. Hypertension.
4.Dyslipidemia
5. Osteoarthritis.
6. Hiatal hernia.
7. Right cataract surgery.Commented [MG9]: If you 
use this template, it is easy to 
cut and paste each day and 
update each section.  Best 
practice is to make your note, 
participate in end of day 
rounds, modify based on what 
was discussed and sign it.  
Please note, you do need to 
sign your note each day! 
Otherwise it will not post to 
be viewed by others. 
Commented [MG10]: 
Copied from admission note 
Commented [MG11]:  Copied 
from admission note but 
edited based on developing 
understanding of the 
problems. The active problem 
list consists of a combination 
of new and chronic active 
problems.  To decide if a 
chronic active problem needs 
to be on the list in hospital, ask 
yourself: 
1. Does it need monitoring
(e.g. DM or heart failure or
patient on Coumadin to
monitor INR)
2.Are we doing something
that might make it less stable
(e.g. prednisone in a patient
with 
DM or holding BP meds)
Also include things like 
lines we have placed (e.g. 
urinary catheter or PICC 
line).  Including them in the 
list reminds us to plan 
when to remove them. 
Commented [MG12]: 
Copied from admission note  

=== Page 12 ===
SOCIAL  HISTORY :  The patient lives at home with her son 
and granddaughter.  She mobilized using a walker or a cane 
around the house.  She suffered a stroke recently and did 
receive rehabilitation therapy at Parkwood Hospital.  She 
continues to remain independent of her ADLs, but her son 
does help her with groceries  and finances. Previous smoker, 
quit in 1985 – one pack per week.  
RECONCILED  MEDICATION LIST  
1.Pantoprazole 40 mg b.i.d.  autosubstituted in hospital for
Lansoprazole 30 mg BID
2.ASA 80 mg once daily.
3.Atorvastatin 20 mg once daily.
4. Perindopril  4 mg daily (HOLD for low BP)  
5.Clobazam 10 mg once daily.
6.Vitamin C 500 mg once daily.
7.Amitriptyline 20 mg once daily
8.Seroquel 25 mg b.i.d.
9. PEG 3350 p.r.n . in hospital medicatio n (no used since 
admission)  
10. cefuroxime  500 mg BID for 7 day  course  stopping on 
Date X  
11.erythromycin drops x 5 days stopping on Date X
12.Dalteparin 5000 units daily for DVT prophylaxis in
hospitalCommented 
[MG13]: Copied from 
admission note.  Try to 
sequence like with like 
(i.e. cardiac meds , DM 
meds etc.) 
Commented 
[MG14]: If done 
right, this can be 
copied from the 
admission note and 
then edited daily.  
Commented [MG15]: 
For home meds where 
the dose was changed 
or the drug was held be 
sure to indicate what 
and why 
Commented 
[MG16]: For prn meds, 
update daily what they 
have taken in the past 
24 hours 
Commented 
[MG17]: For 
antibiotics be sure to 
indicate a stop date 
and a total duration 

=== Page 13 ===
IVs 
-None currently
ALLERGIES :  
1.Cefprozil - tested and told not to take.
2.Penicillin allergy is a rash.
TODAY’S PHYSICAL EXAMINATION :  
Vitals: HR71 BP 117/70 RR 18 95% on 1 L NP (Stable over 
past 24 hours)  
General: in bed comfortable, no respiratory distress, alert and 
oriented x  1 , difficulty with attention. Wearing dentures.  
Eye: L eye has periorbital erythema, yellow -green discharge 
on eyelashes.  
Cardio: Normal S1, S2 no murmurs  
Resp: Difficult to assess due to positioning, GAEB in the 
upper lobes, no crackles or wheezes.  
Abdo: Abdomen soft, non tender, non distended  
Hypoxemia, likely due to R lower lobe pneumonia:  Not on 
oxygen at baseline, no history of COPD or asthma. No 
wheeze, but short of breath on admission to the emergency 
department. CXR showed no pulmonary edema. CT  showed 
no PE but demonstrated infectious cause of shortness of Commented 
[MG18]: If running 
maintenance be sure 
to list what you are 
running and the, why 
you are running it and 
the plan for 
discontinuing it 

=== Page 14 ===
breath as well as a nodule in the R lower lobe. Had two 
documented fevers over 38.0 degrees in ER. Given one dose 
of levofloxacin by ER. Normal lactate. Swabbed for COVID. 
Switched to ceftriax one q 24 hours. Placed on O2 in emerg. 
Has allergies to multiple antibiotics.  
Updates: Fever has resolved. Shortness of breath has 
resolved. On O2 1 -1.5 L NP. Blood cultures show no growth 
on day 1. Breath sounds difficult to appreciate today due to 
posit ioning but had good air entry bilaterally. Was satting 90% 
on 1 L but once took deep breaths and repositioned NP, rose 
to 95%. Lung nodule on CXR discussed with the patient. 
COVID negative. Dropped to 76% after exertion and oxygen 
was increased to 1.5L NP.  
Plan:  
1. Switched to cefuroxime 500 mg BID oral to step down as
appears to be improving.
2. Wean off oxygen.
3. Consider referral to Adverse Drug Reactions clinic due to
multiple antibiotic allergies.
4. Arrange F/U for lung nodule with CT in 3 -6 months.
Hypotension: Treated for hypertension at baseline, on 
perindopril 4 mg daily. Was hypotensive (90/50s) at 

=== Page 15 ===
admission. Received 500 mL bolus in ER, no AKI. Eating well. 
Received 1000 mL RL. Suspended perindopril.  
Updates: BP 117/70 today. Not sympt omatic currently. 
Euvolemic/dry on examination.  
Plan: Continue to hold perindopril.  
Mobility:   At baseline, uses a walker or cane to mobilize. 
Has not gotten out of bed since admission.  
Plan: PT referral in place for this patient.  
L eye inflammation:  3 days prior to admission, had a 
migraine headache and had a nap, waking up to crusting and 
erythema around the L orbit.  Had periorbital redness around 
the left eye with some crusting with discharge on the 
eyelashes.   
Updates: No pain. Con tinues to have erythema, crusting and 
purulent discharge from L eye. No vision changes.  
Plan: erythromycin drops to treat infection. 
Confusion:  No confusion or dementia at baseline. Previous 
stroke. Family states has become confused in hospital before. 
Was not oriented to person or place since admission but no 
fluctuating level of consciousness.   

=== Page 16 ===
Update:  According to her nurse, she has had a b etter night 
last Pm and today appears to be oriented X 3 .  
Assessment/ Plan: Initial delirium likely secondary to infection 
and hypoxia.  Continue to monitor  
Best Practices :  DVT prophylaxis has been started, 5000 
units of dalteparin.  Code status was dis cussed and the 
patient wishes to be DNR basic.  Commented [MG19]: 
be sure to indicate any 
forms of lines, 
telemetry, catheters 
etc.  For each be sure to 
indicate why it is in, 
how long it is planned 
to be in and the 
indication. 
E.g.  Telemetry for 48
hours to monitor for
cause of syncope.  If
normal after 48 will
discontinue.
Foley placed for urinary
retention.  will  treat for
constipation and plan a
trial of void on DATE.
Back to top

=== Page 17 ===
DISCHARGE SUMMARY (Verified)  
cc: Family Doctor  
Specialist 1  
Specialist 2 etc.  
DATE OF ADMISSION:  Date     
DATE OF DISCHARGE: Date  
Mrs. Mu is a 90 -year-old female from home with her son and 
granddaughter who initially presented with fever NYD as well 
as shortness of breath.  
DISCHARGE DIAGNOSIS :  Right lower lobe pneumonia.  
ACTIVE ISSUES IN HOSPITAL : 
1. Hypoxemia, likely due to the righ t lower lobe pneumonia.
2. Hypotension  on a background of HTN .
3. Mobility.
4. Eye infection.
5. Confusion.
6. Right lower lobe lung nodule.
PAST  MEDICAL HISTORY : 
1. MCA stroke June 22, 2020  with left sided weakness and
neglect.
a.Etiology is ESUS versus small vessel disease
b.Was in Parkwood for rehabCommented [MG20]: 
Be sure to send copies to 
the family physician as 
well as any specialists 
involved in their care 
Commented [MG21]: 
Copied from admission 
note and modified, if 
needed based on other 
information learned in 
hospital (i.e. the 
admission note is not 
always accurate) 

=== Page 18 ===
2. MCV in 1973 with patient suffered from posttraumatic
seizures.  No history of seizure in the last 10 years.
3. Hypertension.
4.Dyslipidemia
5. Osteoarthritis.
6. Hiatal hern ia.
7. Right cataract surgery.
DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS:  
1. Quetiapine 25 mg oral 2 times daily.
2. ASA 81 mg daily.
3. Amitriptyline 20 mg oral daily with supper.
4. Atorvastatin 20 mg oral daily.
5. Clobazam 10 mg oral daily at bedtime.
6.Cyanocobalamin 500 mcg oral daily.
7. Pantoprazole 40 mg oral BID
8.Cefuroxime 500 mg BID to complete a 7-day course
ending on Date
DISCONTINUED MEDICATIONS: 
1.Perindop ril 4 mg oral daily (due to persistent hypotension
in hospital). 
COURS E IN HOSPITAL: 
Pneumonia:   At baseline, Mrs. M. is not on any oxygen, has 
no history of COPD or asthma, but does have a history of Commented [MG22]: 
For newly prescribed 
meds, be sure to 
indicate why 
and, if self-
limited, duration and 
end date. Be sure to 
also indicate any 
changes to chronic 
home meds (e.g. 
metoprolol 25 mg bid 
decreased from 50 mg 
bid) 
Commented [MG23]: 
Must include.  Be sure 
to also hand write a 
prescription indicating 
the discontinuation 
because power chart 
does 
not generate 
discontinuation scripts 
Commented [MG24]: 
This is key!  For patients 
with chronic active 
medical problems, a 
description of baseline 
function is especially 
important.  For 
example, if she had 
COPD, what has it been 
like in the past year.  
What can 
they do and 
not do etc. 

=== Page 19 ===
smoking approximately 1 pack of cigarettes per week, last 
smoking in 1983.  On admission to the hospital, she was short 
of breath and was febrile.  CT chest showed no PE, but 
showed a right lower lobe pneumonia  as well as a nodule in 
the right lower lobe.  She was given 1 dose of levofloxacin by 
the Emergency Department.  She was also swabbed for 
COVID, but was negative.  She was switched to ceftriaxone, 
and stepped down cefuroxime 500 mg b.i.d., which is to be  
stopped on date after a 7-day course.  During her hospital 
stay, she had difficulty weaning off oxygen.  The day before 
discharge, she developed a one -time, low -grade fever of 38.0 
degrees Celsius, which was investigated with chest x -ray 
which showed no gross changes from previous  chest x -ray, 
and there was no other clinical suggestion of infection. At 
discharge , she  was able to achieve an oxygen saturation up 
to 100% while lying in bed without oxygen . 
Hypotension :  During her stay, she was consistently 
hypotensive or normot ensive and initially  received several 
fluid boluses.  Her Perindopril was suspended due to 
hypotension and was not restarted because all of her BPs 
were below 120 systolic.  
Mobility:   At baseline, she uses a cane or walker to mobilize. 
She was seen by PT  and OT during her stay to help with Commented 
[MG25]: Depending 
on the problem, 
always be sure to flag 
key findings at the 
time of discharge.  In 
other patients, this 
might be their JVP, 
what their lungs 
sounded like or how 
much pedal edema 
they had.
Commented 
[MG26]: Secondary 
minor issues should be 
mentioned but do not 
necessarily require a 
lot of detail. 

=== Page 20 ===
mobilization.  Both of these services will be seeing her in the 
community  as she was not back to baseline at discharge.  
Left eye inflammation:   Two days prior to admission, she 
developed crusting and erythema around he r eye.  She also 
had periorbital redness on the eye with some crusting and 
discharge on the eyelashes.  She was placed on erythromycin 
drops q.i.d. for 5 days, which cleared any signs of infection.  
Confusion:   She has no confusion or dementia at baseline,  
but does have history of stroke.  The family did state that she 
has a history of becoming confused in hospital.  Throughout 
her hospital stay, she had fluctuating mentation, at times not 
being oriented to time or place.  However, on discharge, she 
was ori ented to person and place.  It was thought that 
infection and being in the hospital may have contributed to 
her confusion.  At time of discharge, she was slightly off 
baseline, but the team felt that she would likely reorient better 
at home where her confu sion would resolve.  
Lung nodule:  She was found to have a lung nodule of her 
right lower lobe.  This was explained to her and her family that 
it may be due to an infectious cause or may be a change in 
the lung parenchyma or may be a signal that there may b e an 
underlying malignancy.  A repeat CT scan in 3 months is 
recommended.  

=== Page 21 ===
RECOMMENDATIONS AND FOLLOW -UP PLANS : 
1.Pneumonia:  This appears to have fully resolved.  There
is no need for follow -up CXR.  She has 2 days of
antibiotics to complete
2.HTN:  At baseline she has HTN.  Throughout her stay we
have held her Perindopril 4 mg oral daily .  We have
asked her to see her family physician in 1 -2 weeks to
reassess and we have notified her Family Physician who
has also agreed with this plan
3.Lung nodu le:  As noted above, a CT scan has been
ordered with results cc’d to her family physician.  We 
have contacted their office and they have agreed to 
follow -up with her and her family on the results.  
4.Mobility:  PT and OT will see her in the community for an
at home assessment  and ongoing support .
It was a pleasure being involved in this patient ’s care.  Should 
there be any questions arising from this Discharge Summary, 
please do not hesitate to contact Dr. Attending Physician.  
Name  
Clinical Clerk /resident  for, 
Dr Name  Commented 
[MG27]: This is always 
a good thing to do wen 
asking someone else to 
do follow-u p. 
Back to top

=== Page 22 ===
Discharge Planning  and the D/C Note  
Milton  dictating  Paradise  Lost to his Daughters.  
Discharge  planning  and the D/C note represent a very 
important aspect of inpatient care.  This teaching 
brochure has been designed to help guide you through 
the process.  
Prepared  by:§ 
Mark  Goldszmidt  MD, MHPE, PhD,  FRCPC  
mgoldszm@uwo.ca  
§ Last updated June 2020


=== Page 23 ===
D/C Checklist : 
Discharge planning begins at the time of  admission.  
However,  if not already done,  don’t forget  to do  the 
following:  
1.Day before D/C
□Fill out PODS  and discuss  D/C plans with patient and/or
their families.
•What happened in  hospital
•Changes  in meds
•What  to expect
•Complications  to watch  for and what to do if they
occur .
□Inform/arrange  for home  care (LHIN)  etc. when
appropriate .
□Contact  patient’s  family  doctor and/or pertinent
specialists (if relevant).
□Plan Scripts  keeping  in mind  the following:
•No change to their prior medication  regimen - 
reconcile  but do not provide new script .
•If changing doses – in the comments  section  indicate
that this is a change from the prior dose
(e.g. increased from prior dose of…)
•Don’t  forget  to use the limited  use codes  when
required.
•If pre-hospitalization  meds  have been stopped,
you will need to hand -write these onto the
electronic script at the time of discharge
(Power Chart does not  allow discontinue scripts).
The alternative is to create non -formulary  script
which  can be used for disco ntinuing medications.
•Don’t  provide  scripts  for PRN  meds unless  truly
indicated post -discharge.

=== Page 24 ===
2.Day of D/C
□Do any tasks  not already  done.  (e.g., review PODS
with the patient. )
□Review  scripts with  senior.
□Ensure that appropriate follow -up has been arranged
and that the patient is aware of these plans. This
includes  the need  for follow -up tests or to review
pending tests.
□Dictate the  D/C summary .
This needs  to be done  on the same day as the
discharge.
Note:  if you know  that you will need to  edit it,
please  inform  the attending of this need and be sure
to do the edits the very next day so that it can be
signed off and sent to the family physician within
48 hours of d/c.  Prior to a weekend or post -call
day, it is ok to pre -dictate a d/c note so  that the
person who best knows the patient is doing the
summary.
Note:  Patients who have died also need a dictated death 
summary!  If you are on call when this occurs, and you 
are not just cross - covering, as a courtesy to your 
teammates , please  dictate  the summary.  If not, let the 
team senior know the next morning so they can ensure 
that it gets done.  

=== Page 25 ===
Dictation  
1.Prior  to Dictating :
□Be sure that you are clear on the discharge  plans  for
the patient  (you may need to discuss these with the
senior  prior  to dictating  your note).
□Make a list of all the names (first* and last) of
physicians who should receive a copy of this note
(attending, family physician, any specialists who
were involved in their  care while  they were  in
hospital or who follow them on an outpatient basis).
Also include a copy to places like their nursing
home.
□Find a quiet place to dictate
□Remind yourself to “speak slowly” and  spell  key
words  (esp.  physician last names, drug names and
doses etc.)
2.Starting  your  dictation
□Identify  self, role, date,  patient  name,  PIN # and their
D.O.B.:
“this  is John  Smith  PGY1  dictating  for Dr. M.
Goldszmidt on April 1st 2020. This is a dictation on
Mr. John Doe, PIN # 1234567, DOB 05/01/69)”.
□Identify all physicians who should receive a copy of
the D/C s ummary.
□Be sure  to include  their first name/initial  as well as
their last name!
□Also indicate:
•Date of Admission:
•Date of Discharge:
*For transcription  services  to send it out, you need at least a first initial.  If the
physician is from another city, please also specify which one.

=== Page 26 ===
3.Dictation  Format†
I.Most  Responsible  Diagnosis
II.Patient Identification
Mr. Doe is a 66 y.o  who was admitted from
home where he lives with his wife…His active
problem list includes:
III.Active  Problems  list
(1)CAD with CHF
(2) Acute on Chronic renal failure
(3) Type II DM etc.
Note: This is not all past medical problems, only
active ones.  It may include social issues  such as
needs  for more  home  supports and
complications arising in hospital  etc.
IV.Past Medical/Surgical History Include a full list
of their past history.  Some  of these  may be same
titles as the active problems.
V.RE________
(A.k.a. History of Active Problems dealt with in
hospital) For this series of sections,  start with most
important  active problem (usually same as “most
responsible diagnosis”).  Be sure to dictate new
headings for each one:
New paragraph “ RE: CHF ” new line… Try to keep
paragraphs  relatively  brief  (i.e., 3-5
sentences/paragraph).
† When  dictating  the first heading,  indicate  that you wish them to put all 
headings in “ALL CAPS”.  Also,  say “new  heading”  for each new section.  

=== Page 27 ===
For each Active  Problem be  sure to  include:  
□Synopsis of original presentation including only
pertinent +ves and –ves from the history, physical
and investigations.
(Complete history and physical does not belong
here!)
□Course in hospital for that problem including
functional status  and pertinent physical findings  at
time of D/C . Also include results of any
consultations or relevant results (labs, echo, CT,
PFT etc.).
□Note:  For 2o problems,  this may be brief
VI.Summary of I nvestigations (optional)
Only  include  major  investigations like echos,
CTs, blood cultures etc.
VII.Discharge  Meds:
Goal is to have one list of meds that clarifies how
they have changed since admission. It should only
include Prn’s that they will be using at home:
1.Metoprolol  25 mg bid ( from 12.5  mg bid)
2.lasix 20 mg bid ( from 40 mg bid)
3.Plavix  75mg  OD (new)  …
4.In addition,  lisinopril  and celebrex  were  D/C’d
Note:  Do not include a separate list of admission meds.  
Do mention  drug allergies  (including  the reaction type).  

=== Page 28 ===
VIII.Recommendations& Follow -up:
This  is the most  important  section  so take  your
time  here . For each problem, give  it its own
section  and go in the same order you used above.
1.RE DM:
2.RE CHF:
For each,  be sure to clarify:  
□What  the problem is:
•Diagnosis,  severity  and prognosis (if
relevant)
□Plans for  managing  problem:
•Current  therapies
•Planned therapies
•Planned/Pending  investigations
•What has been discussed with the
patient/family (Goals of Care, resuming
activities, lifestyle changes,  monitoring  issues
(sugars, daily weights etc.) and prognosis
(when relevant!)
•Who will provide follow -up, what they will
be doing and why for example:
“Because of the risk of hyperkalemia and 
worsening renal  dysfunction,  we have 
asked the family doctor to re -check 
electrolytes in two weeks”‡ 
•Also be  sure to indicate:
▪Disposition  (nursing  home  etc.)
▪Services  arranged  (LHIN  etc.)
▪Results  of Goals  of care discussions

=== Page 29 ===
Abbreviated  Dictation  Format  
□Introduction:  Identify  self, role, date,  patient name, PIN #
and their D.O.B.
□Copies  to: Chart,  Family  physician,  other specialists (first
and last names)
DATE  OF ADMISSION:  
DATE  OF DISCHARGE:  
I.MOST  RESPONSIBLE  DIAGNOSIS:
II.I.D.: Mr. Doe is a
III. ACTIVE  PROBLEMS  LIST:
i.__________
ii.__________, etc.
IV. OTHER  PAST  MED/SURGICAL HISTORY
V.RE: “TITLE  FOR  ACTIVE  PROBLEM  #1”
(Include abbreviated HPIs, course in hospital  and
functional  status  at time of D/C for each active problem)
RE: “Title Active problem #1”  
RE: “Title  Active  problem  #2” etc. 
VI. SUMMARY  OF INVESTIGATIONS
VII. MEDS  AT TIME  D/C & ALLERGIES
VIII. RECOMMENDATIONS  & FOLLOW - UP
□Dictate  by problem  (1. Re Diabetes:)
□State  final opinion  of what  problem  is
□Plans  for managing  problem:
•Current/Planned  therapies
•Planned/Pending  investigations
•What  patient/family  have  been  told
•Who will provide follow -up and what they will be doing
•Also  indicate
▪Condition at discharge including disposition
(nursing  home,  home…)
▪Services  Arranged  (home  care etc.)
▪Results  of Goals  of care discussionsBack to top