Funding for services is provided by the County of San Diego Health & Human Services Agency   Progress Note  
 
 
 
 
 
Client Name:  Last, First  Date of Service:  10/25/21  
Length of Session:  45min  Location  of Service:  Office  
CPT Code:  90834  Diagnosis/ICD Code:  
Major Depressive Disorder, Single Episode, Unspecified F32.9   
Present as Session  
☒ Client  Present  
☐ Client No  showed/cancelled  
☐ Others Present, List name(s) and relationship to  client:  
Significant Changes in Client’s Condition  
☐ No significant change from last  visit  
☐ Mood/Affect   
☐ Thought  Process/Orientation   
☒ Behavior/Functioning   
☒ Substance  Use  
☐ Physical Health  Issues   
☐ Other,  Explain:   
Danger to:  
☐Self   ☐ Others  
☐Property   
☒None☐  
☐Ideation   
☐Plan  
☐Intent  
 ☐ Means   
      ☐ Attempt  
Specific s Regarding Risk Assessment  (Include safety planning, reports made, etc.):  
 
Client reported continued alcohol use over the past week both socially and alone. Client reported no current SI, however, exp eriences SI after substance 
use. No plan or means reported. Therapist reviewed safety plan with client to identify triggers, coping  strategies and supports, as well as ways to cope 
following substance use. Client agreed to modifications made to safety plan, as well as intent to attend 3 AA meetings and ut ilize sponsor.  
 
Focus of Session  (Client’s complaints, symptoms, new precipitat ors, etc.)  
 
Client reported depressive symptoms have been improving, to include improved motivation to complete ADLs and increased appeti te.  Client reported 
continued insomnia, sadness, and low self -esteem, which impacts his functioning at work and with friends. Clie nt presented with cognitive distortions 
pertaining to how his friends and coworkers view him and had difficulty presenting information to support his ideas of not be ing liked by peers.   
 
Therapeutic Intervention(s) and Response to Interventions  (How did the service address the beneficiary’s behavioral health needs; how did client 
respond to intervention):  
 
Therapist provided client with psychoeducation on how substance use can increase symptoms of depression.  Client inten ds to reduce use / increase 
utilization of AA and his sponsor. Therapist encouraged client to explore triggers  to substance use . Therapist reviewed how negative thoughts impact 
emotions and behaviors. Therapist facilitated cognitive restructuring exercise to help client identify how negative thoughts impact relationships and 
depression. Client was responsive to interventions and engaged in ea ch exercise.  
 
 